So far, you've seen Markov
chains as a graph of states and
transitions between these states.
Now, I'll show you how to use them for
parts of speech tagging.
If you think about a sentence as a
sequence of words with associated parts of
speech tags, you can represent that
sequence with a graph where the parts of
speech tags are events that can occur
depicted by the states of our model graph.
In this example NN is for
nouns, VB is for verbs.
And other stands for all other tags.
The edges of the graph have weights or
transition probabilities associated
with them which define the probability
of going from one state to another.
There is one last important property
that Markov chains possess, the so
called Markov property,
which states that the probability of
the next event only depends
on the current events.
The Markov property helps keep the model
simple by saying all you need to determine
the next state is the current states.
It doesn't need information from
any of the previous states.
Going back to the analogy of whether
water is in solid, liquid, or gas states.
If you look at a cup of water
that is sitting outside,
the current states of
the water is a liquid state.
When modeling the probability that
the water in the cup will transition into
the gas states, you don't need to know
the previous history of the water.
Whether it's previously
came from ice cubes or
whether it's previously
came from rain clouds.
That makes sense, right?
Let's revisit the sentence
example from earlier.
If you look at this sentence again and
want to know the probability that the next
word following learn is a noun then
this just depends on the current
state that you're in.
In this case the verb states denoted
by VB because the current word
learned is a verb, so the probability
of the next word being a noun is
the transition probability for going from
the verb to the noun and end states.
The transition probability is written on
the arrow that goes from VB to an end.
And as you can see it's 0.4.
You can also use a table to store
the states and transition probabilities.
A table is an equivalent, but more compact
representation of the Markov chain model.
And this table is called
a transition matrix.
A transition matrix is an n by n matrix
with n being the number of states
in the graph.
Each row in the matrix represents
transition probabilities of one
state to all other states.
For example, the first row represents the
case where the current states is a noun.
The columns represent the possible
future states that might come next.
The values inside the table represent
the transition probability of
going from a noun to a noun from a noun to
a verb and a noun to some other states.
Notice that for all the odds going
transition probabilities from a given
state, the sum of these transition
probabilities should always be one.
Equivalently in the transition matrix,
all of the transition probabilities
in each row should add up to one.
Some of you may have noted one
little flaw in this model.
It doesn't tell you how to assign a part
of speech tag to the first word in
the sentence.
This is because all of the states
in the model correspond towards.
But what do you do when there is no
previous word as in the case when
beginning a sentence.
To handle this you can introduce what is
known as an initial state by you include
these probabilities in the Table A.
So now it has dimensions n plus 1 by n.
Notice that the transition matrix can be
written as an actual matrix like this.
To recap, Markov chains consists of a set
q of n states p1 all the way to qn.
The transition matrix a has dimensions
n plus 1 by n with the initial
probabilities in the first row.
Nice work so far.
I'll see you later.
In this video you learned about
initial probability distributions and
you learned about
transition probabilities.
In the next video you're going to learn
about hidden Markov models which are used
to decode the hidden states of a word.
In our case that would be
the parts of speech of that word.